in the summer of 2003 a group of divers
had an unnerving encounter they would
never forget
just at the beginning of a weekend's
diving in Allah pool it was at the
beginning of July I think and hot sunny
day so we were keen to get in the water
because the scene was quite calm we
decided that we'd head out to the Summer
Isles because that's where we all prefer
to dive if we can and there's a dive
that we've done before Blackrock which
we just sort would have another dipole
they dived for about 40 minutes and
photographed some of the diverse marine
life in the area it was a nice diver II
had a good time but they had no inkling
of what was about to happen next
my wife wise will have finished our dive
and the other two guys were getting
kitted up and the boat sort of just
drifting along and under low power and
some distance behind the boat we saw a
shark fin at the time we thought that it
was a basking shark and since the guys
were already in their diving gear they
felt that they wanted to go have we dive
with it if they could and as soon as I
started the engine the shark turned and
instead of us approaching it
it came rather aggressively towards the
boat I've seen basking sharks or several
times before this was behavior I'd never
encountered such a sort of an aggressive
turn and and movement
the shark approached and swam alongside
the boat very much giving us the
once-over and swam alongside for a lot
15 seconds before slowly diving
underneath swimming away I'm a marine
biologists professionally um I spent a
lot of time at sea and have seen a large
variety of different wildlife this was
absolutely definitely not a basking
shark the colorations was totally
different light gray on the surface with
very pale marking below the sort of mid
line there was also no sign of the the
large gill slits that a very obvious
sinner in a basking shark I've never
seen anything like this before a large
pointed snout
small eyes to the side large triangular
fin and the size of the shark a good 5
meters I was convinced to my own mind
that this was a great white shark I
could think of nothing else that it
could be